Hello and welcome to Python Bytes where we deliver Python news and headlines directly to your earbuds.
This is episode 150 recorded September 25th, 2019. I'm Brian Okken.
And I'm Michael Kennedy.
And this episode is brought to you by Datadog. Check them out at pythonbytes.fm/datadog.
More on what they have to offer later. But Michael, right now I kind of sense a theme.
Are you looking for a new job? Are you hiring somebody? Or what's going on?
I'm going to cover a couple of topics about getting better at interviews.
You know, I kind of hope I never have to apply for a job or go to a job again in my life.
So no, I'm not actually on the hunt for that.
But I do have a couple of friends who are looking for jobs.
And you know, I'm just a little sympathetic to the challenges and whatnot.
So I want to kick us off with a thing called how to stand out in the Python coding interview.
Okay.
This comes from James Timmons on, and he wrote it on real python.com.
So it's kind of a Python version of the stuff that it seems like the tech
industry thinks you should know.
And I feel like it's a little bit better.
I feel like the tech industry says, Oh, you know, which is better,
a bubble sort or a quick sort?
You know what?
I don't care.
I call sort on the list and we're good.
You know, I don't maybe sorted like you could debate dot sort versus sorted,
but who cares, right?
Like, this is not a problem we need to keep solving.
And yet it feels like in the interview process
it falls back to, well, they asked about big O notation,
they asked about algorithms of that type,
they asked about a data structure,
like when would I use a doubly linked list
versus a single linked list?
And like, ah, I can go build a Python web app
with SQLAlchemy and talk to Stripe and charge a credit card,
but I forgot when I use a single linked list, right?
single direction like list.
But that seems like what people are testing.
So here's an article that sort of covers
those kinds of questions, but specifically
for the Python developer.
And I think it's pretty decent.
So it's meant to help you kind of navigate
that space of Python and show you
that you have some knowledge of the built-ins
and of the language and things like that.
And you can kind of write decent code.
So it covers a handful of things
with a bunch of other stuff mixed in there.
So how do you use enumerate to iterate both over a view of like collection to
iterate both with indices and values.
And if you've been doing Python for a long time, that's obvious.
We do that a lot, but if you come from a language like C++ or Java or
something that doesn't have this all of a sudden, well, then it's really weird.
Right.
And you don't know to use it.
So it's good to have that in there.
Debugging with breakpoint formatting with f-strings F yes.
For that one.
That's great.
Sorting.
All right.
Sorting lists.
I talked about that, like you don't have to care about the algorithms, but
knowing how to sort stuff is really nice generators and it's pressure on memory.
Default values and dictionaries using the counter class and then
just some standard library stuff.
And I think knowing all those things kind of puts a nice Python spin on
that level of Python interviewing.
Yeah.
Do you do any interviewing?
I haven't actually applied for a job for several years.
Do you do it in reverse though?
Do you hiring?
I mean, like interview people for it there.
Yeah.
- Yeah, definitely a lot.
And I help out with other teams too when they're hiring.
And like, for some reason,
people know me as this person that knows Python.
So I'll do the Python interview part.
But yeah, a lot of this stuff is stuff that I look for.
If you actually say for I in length, the interview's over.
Just, you don't know Python then.
- Yeah, I mean, maybe if you're hiring for,
like I'm hiring a developer and it doesn't,
they don't have to know Python,
but they're going to be doing it.
So we're going to help them along.
And they are, they're really good at Java.
You could probably mentor them over.
But if your goal is to hire an experienced Python developer
and they don't know for item in collection,
like, yeah, you're done.
- Yeah, but I'm a pretty fair person.
I talk through stuff.
People can always recover.
If you freeze up, don't worry about it, just flow with it.
I think people should interview more,
even if they're not looking for a job,
just to keep up their interview chops.
It's good.
- Yeah, nice, I agree.
- Speaking of being nice to people,
we have a bit of news,
and even though I didn't even actually know
this was an issue.
So there was an announcement made
that the PSF, the Python Software Foundation,
updated its code of conduct.
And apparently the PSF had one code of conduct for the PSF
and things it was sponsoring,
and a different one for PyCon US.
And now there's just one.
So that's the big news.
And we've got links to the code of conduct
and the enforcement guidelines and reporting guidelines.
And we hear about codes of conduct occasionally and stuff.
And in the past, I've thought,
why do I have to care about this?
I mean, just don't be a jerk and try to be a nice person.
Isn't that enough?
And for the most part, yes,
but if that was all there was to it
and there weren't any problems,
then we wouldn't need these.
And clearly we need them.
Things come up.
So I think it's good for people to go,
it's not a long read.
I think people should read them,
especially before you go to an event
to make sure you know what's up with that.
The other thing that's nice to look up
is what is the reporting mechanism?
So if you see somebody violating these,
or basically just somebody being a jerk,
what do you do about it?
Who do you contact?
And so that's good to just sort of,
at least have read it once so that if it happens,
you can look it up and figure out what to do.
- At least know what it is.
And you're kind of putting yourself in a space
where you gotta know even a little more about it maybe, huh?
- Right, so one of the things is that it covers things
that the PSF sponsors also, sponsored spaces.
This includes a couple different,
two or three of the Python meetups around the country.
They're not sponsoring us yet,
although we probably should hit them up for that.
But we are doing a meetup here in Portland West
coming up next month.
And yeah, we probably ought to think about this
of what to do if something happens.
So yeah, Michael and I will probably talk about this
and before the actual meetup.
- Yeah, we'll figure it out.
What's the date of the meetup again for people?
- Oh my gosh, I should know this.
It's like the second Tuesday in October.
So that's like the sixth or the eighth
or something like that.
- That would be the eighth.
- The eighth, yeah. - Yes, eighth.
Awesome, all right.
Well, for those of you who could make it,
that'd be great to see you out there.
All right, now, speaking of great stuff,
before we get on to more interviewing on my theme here,
I wanna tell you about Datadog.
So Python Bytes is sponsored by Datadog.
They're a modern cloud-scale monitoring platform
that brings things like metrics, logs,
and traces all into one place.
Their tracing client includes auto-instrumenting support
for things like Django, Flask, Postgres.
That means you get visibility
into what your entire application is doing,
not just maybe a trace out of your Python app
or profiling just your Python app,
but you can troubleshoot slow requests
and optimize your code within a few minutes.
So start monitoring your dynamic environment
with a free trial
and Datadog will send you a free t-shirt as well.
Just get over to pythonbytes.fm/datadog to get started.
So this previous one that I talked about, Brian,
It was very much focused on sort of these,
almost these data structure algorithm versions.
And it said, here's the Python equivalent
of some of these conversations you might have.
This next one, I don't know how long it would take you
to go through all this stuff,
but it would take you a good long while.
This is by Ben Rogagen, I'm gonna say,
sorry about that if I got that wrong,
goes by Seattle Data Guy.
So it talks a little bit about some of the silly stuff
like FizzBuzz and some of the traditional classical,
I don't know, silly algorithm problems
like give us the mth Fibonacci, et cetera, et cetera.
And some things that you might study and so on.
But then there's a bunch of videos.
And I don't know how many videos.
There are many, I would say at least 75 videos
on different topics.
And these are like 15 minute videos.
So there's some on algorithms,
there's some on data structures,
there's some on big O notation,
dynamic programming, string manipulation,
system design, operating systems, threads,
object-oriented programming, design patterns,
SQL, and more stuff.
So if you are in the process of trying to learn these things
to get one of these jobs or nail one of these interviews,
you've got homework.
- Oh, okay. - That's a lot, huh?
- This is frightening though.
Yeah, awesome that this resource is here.
Especially you can like pick a part where you,
you know, had trouble with,
or maybe after an interview even,
and go, "Wow, I got asked this stuff
and I didn't understand it, so maybe go review it then.
I was just watching all of the different algorithms,
sorting algorithms, I love videos of sorting algorithms.
- I know, the visualizations, yeah.
There's a big graphic of like 20 different
sorting algorithms all sorting next to each other
at the same time, right?
Something like that. - Yeah.
- It's mesmerizing.
And also, I would say there are maybe 15 pages of comments,
and the comments get kicked off like,
I think we really need to face a reckoning
in our profession.
And the reckoning is this.
we require an overload of stuff that's simply not important
on the job just to get through the interview process
and land a position.
So basically, you've got to go through all these algorithms,
kind of like I said.
And then in the end, you do a lot of Googling,
stack overflow, and you find packages on awesome Python,
and then you install them and you roll.
There's a huge discussion about why that is,
what we can do about it, and so on.
So I think it's great.
You should also check out the conversation in the comments.
On the other end of it, just a devil's advocate,
one of the reasons I know people do pick up
algorithm type questions is because
they work in a specific space domain
and it would be obvious to ask about that.
But if they don't really,
if they know they can train you on their domain,
they have to ask you about stuff that is something generic
and that's where the algorithm stuff is.
I still think it's bad.
Things like, what should you use,
a bubble sort or quick sort?
That's a dumb question.
But if you have things like, I don't know,
fizzbuzz is kind of silly, but you should know it by now.
And some of the other things,
it's hard to come up with good questions
that are fair for anybody coming at it.
So also, keep in mind that.
- Yeah, you know what I would much rather see
is something live and in the tooling and environment
that that person likes to work in.
So if I was interviewing somebody,
it seems to me like I might set up like a Zoom call
and we do screen share and say,
hey, I would like you to create this kind of website
and have it, you know, have a route that passes data
to the view method or whatever, right?
Like if it's a web job,
or I'd like you to have a program that reads a JSON file
and prints out these things and just say, okay, now go,
let's do it.
Talk me through building this app and spend 15 minutes.
You can tell if somebody is comfortable in the language
and comfortable in their tools, or they have just no idea.
Like, I know that's what fizzbuzz is supposed to solve,
but if you can't load a JSON file,
which is like three lines of code,
and it just works with dictionaries after that,
you probably are not really capable in Python.
So I would much rather see something like that,
like a small task that's not super domain-specific,
it's not really deep into some library
that you could ask over all of these crazy things,
and it seems like it'd be effective.
So I don't know, that's my thoughts.
- Definitely, cool.
So one thing that does, I would really hope I don't get asked
in interviews, is about is regular expressions.
Because those things are like right only.
- No, no, simple regular expressions are fine.
- Okay.
- In regular expressions defense,
they're very useful to concisely say something,
some string kind of matches some other string within,
you know, anyway, people know what regular expressions
are for, hopefully.
If you're gonna interview, you probably should look it up.
Yeah.
- But one of the hard things though is if you,
this is, I'm gonna introduce a project by Anthony Sotile,
Sotile, Sotile, oh, anyway, sorry Anthony.
Sotile, called re-assert.
And so what this is, it's just a new matcher
that does better tracebacks for when the match fails.
And so this is really helpful if you've got,
if you wanna do, use regular expressions for a test
for part of your test for your application.
This string should say,
"Hello, Michael, welcome to my website."
And I know that the name's going to be different,
so I'm going to use a regular expression
to parse out the name.
How do I make sure that that matches
and have a useful answer when it doesn't?
And that's where reassert comes in.
And it's pretty fun, and it's a fairly new project,
so the documentation's a little on the light side.
So I did what I often do with new projects is I jumped into the test code and looked at the test
code for this to find out how it was used. And it's kind of fun. Like for instance, we're going
to put in a show notes, an example of just matching foo with fob and how that if you use just re.match,
it just returns a none. >> No match.
>> Yeah, so it's not going to tell you anything. But if you use the matches object within the re
assert project, it gives you more detail of why it doesn't match.
So I think this is for very specific use cases.
It's very cool.
I love it because one of the really frustrating things about regular
expressions is you say, here's the thing and it should match this.
And it says, nope, doesn't match.
Why don't you match?
And this is really cool.
So if, if you compare foo to fob, like foo is a regular expression, fob is
value for static characters.
It just matches, you know, just tries to find that substring basically.
And the error is right here at the B it didn't match the F match the O match,
but the B didn't match and that's super helpful.
That's great.
And there's a bunch of examples in, especially in test code, but yeah, so
check it out and good job, Anthony.
Absolutely.
You know, there's a bunch of awesome Python lists these days, Brian.
Yeah.
We've got awesome ASGI.
We've got awesome Python applications from Mahmoud.
And we've talked a bit about Python typing and type hints and whatnot.
So of course there's an awesome Python typing awesome list.
Okay, nice.
Yeah, it's a collection of awesome Python types, stubs, plugins, and tools for working with them.
So in terms of the tools, there's the static type checkers.
There's stub packages, which define the types that go with other packages,
which is pretty interesting, like typeshed.
So instead of actually putting the types in the libraries,
you can put them in these libraries that go next to your library,
and it will actually pull that.
It has stuff for Python 3.6, 3.7, standard library,
like data classes, and all of those things.
So yeah, it's pretty interesting.
Put them in a PYI file, and it will carry the types over to--
there's an example of data classes.py that'll apply the types to data classes.py.
Oh, cool.
So it's got a bunch of those.
TypeShed is probably the biggest one there.
It's got tools.
This is like a super category of many other ones.
But one I thought you might like is pytest mypy.
So mypy static type checker plugin for pytest.
I think we covered that one at some point.
- Yeah, I think so.
- Yeah.
And then cool articles like how to type check Django
and Django REST framework.
So which is a whole tutorial on doing that.
Apparently Django has a bunch of magic
and it makes type checking it extra hard.
So there's just a bunch of things like that in there
that I thought people might,
if they're getting into this Python typing space,
it's a lot of good stuff to go check out.
- And some of the, like even linters,
'cause some people, I mean, you try one and it's confusing.
Well, try another one.
Maybe it fits better for what you're doing.
- Yeah, there's a bunch of like eight
and some, I think some black stuff
and things like that in there.
- Okay, cool.
I haven't really worked with stubs yet.
I think that's something I wanna try soon, so.
- Yeah. - Neat.
- Same here.
What do you got for our last one?
- Last one, oh, so we have actually,
In the space of looking at people writing articles
and speaking and stuff, we kind of do that a lot.
We run across quite a few people
that list developer advocate as their job title.
And I don't really know exactly what that is.
And I've asked a couple people
and not quite understood it still.
You did like an entire episode on it, didn't you?
- I did, I did.
- Okay.
- I'm gonna see if I can pull up the number.
The number is, I'm not sure what the number is.
I gotta figure it out.
I'll look, keep going.
This is from Dustin Ingram, an article called Developer Advocacy Frequently Asked Questions.
And the disclaimer he puts is that he is a developer advocate for Google.
So other companies and other people might experience different things.
But first off, just what is it?
And he says he helps represent the Python community at Google in his sense, in his case,
but really at whatever company somebody is working for.
to get more involved with the Python community and then also try to represent the Python community
within the company and represent the company in the community, that kind of both ends of it.
He has a chance to work on different packages that he cares about. In Dustin's case, he works
with the PyPI and with packaging and other things. Speaking at conferences, of course, that's what we
assume. That's what I assume. But there are apparently some that don't do much speaking
and conferences and some that just do like one or two a year, which that sounds fun.
The thing that I think really sounds fun is being the user zero for new products or features
for a company.
Yeah, that's pretty cool.
With the bent of thinking about Python users and whether or not they like it and things
like that.
He's got a whole list of different things that they do, but actually this sounds like
a lot of fun to me.
Actually be kind of cool.
I think this would be a great job.
Yeah, I interviewed a couple of folks back on Talk Python.
It was a lot of fun to do that episode.
And yeah, I think it sounds like a great job.
It's one of those jobs where you get to,
you basically get to explore technology.
Obviously, when you work for one of these companies,
it's in the slant of that.
So the three people I interviewed,
Cecil Phillip from Microsoft,
Paul Everett from JetBrains,
and Matt McKay from Twilio,
they all kind of work around their space.
But I don't know, I think it sounds great.
Like if you just like researching new stuff
and playing with new ideas and talking to people,
I would definitely do it.
- I kind of assumed that they even address
the work-life balance.
There's some people that do like to travel a lot,
so you can do that, and some people that don't.
I thought that maybe that was just required for a DA, but--
- Maybe, I'm not really sure either.
But work-life balance is interesting, right?
Because a lot of times those folks would be working
from home when they're not gone.
They might have more time with their family,
more flexibility to go to their kid's soccer game,
but then make it up in the evening.
Whereas people go to office every day,
maybe not so much.
- Definitely, I guess it depends on your life, right?
- That's right, what do you call balance?
Okay, so you got any extra stuff you wanna share?
We already gave a shout out to our Portland West meetup
that you were doing out by your office.
- That's all I wanted to shout out, how about you?
- Yeah, that's on meetup.com, so people can check that out.
Nothing major, there was some interesting news.
We covered a while ago that some of Kenneth Wright's
projects were being moved around.
And the biggest domino in that whole space was requests.
Can't remember exactly who jumped in,
but someone from the PSF jumped in and said,
"Hey, we'll take it.
"We'll take care of it."
And this thing called some project that the PSF runs
that can take care of these types of projects
when they become important
and are teetering on being unowned or whatever.
So there's a huge discussion on Reddit
about how it actually has moved over.
So it actually has moved over to the PSF for one.
And so now the place for requests on GitHub, for example,
is github.com/psf/requests.
That's wild.
But there's a huge discussion around it on Reddit
and take that for what it is, it's Reddit.
Like it's kind of a, you get both sides type of place,
but I think people find it interesting.
- I didn't really know that there was,
actually there's quite a bit of stuff.
There's a few projects under PSF.
I imagine that will grow bigger now.
- Yeah, I would think so as well.
- Black is there, that's interesting.
- How interesting.
Are you ready for some laughs?
- I am.
- This one might hurt us a little bit.
This is good.
As in from laughing so hard.
- Okay.
- This one is called to our attention by Colin Martin.
And it's a set of web development merit badges.
Go ahead and pull up the link
for where you can see the badges
'cause you gotta see the picture
that goes along with each badge.
Let's take them like row by row.
- Okay.
- I'll do the first one.
Each has a big circle
and it's got like something in it.
This one has a giant A, and it says,
so you get this badge if you changed a DNS record
and everything worked just fine.
This one, I love this one.
There's a forward slash bracket A dash brain bracket bracket
and it says, comprehended someone else's regex.
- Yeah, exactly, definitely.
- And you just have a little bit of a webbed.
Another one is like an expander thing,
says built an accordion from scratch.
- I've done that.
- I think you've done this next one,
- And one in the next row.
- So colon WQ for exited vim.
- Exited vim, I love it.
You wanna do the next two?
- Yeah, so, aw crud.
Somebody, you get it if you accidentally created
your own CMS.
And then a little painter.
I like the little painter with the acorn hat.
- Yeah, it's like a French design painter.
- Yeah, pulled off, you get this if you pulled off a design
you didn't think you could.
Well, that's actually kind of nice.
- Yeah, this is nice.
This next one is for the consultants out there.
It's like a mallet banging down like a judge.
And you get this one if you told a client or boss,
no, we're not doing that.
- Yeah, that's awesome.
- Then there's one with like some crazy matching symbols.
It says you wrote an HT access redirect
that included a capture group.
And then this one's pretty funny.
You have a minus CSS pink and a plus CSS green.
It says you refactored a large portion of CSS
and you didn't break anything.
- Oh yeah, that's good.
There's some good ones.
You want to just pick out a couple more?
We can't do one thing.
- Yeah, merged master into a six-month-old branch.
- I love that one.
There's like two arrows going sideways,
two arrows going down.
It says centered an element horizontally and vertically.
- Oh, nobody can have that one.
- That's so hard.
- It's not possible, I don't think.
- I don't think it is either.
- I like the dude laying down on the ground,
says you pushed to production on Friday
and didn't roll it back over the weekend.
- Here's an undecadent one.
- How did a neglected site get hacked and spammed?
- Oh yeah.
- And then another one, there's a guy sleeping on a laptop
and it says, "Solved a bug by taking a nap."
- That's awesome.
There's a semicolon for debugged something for over an hour
where the fix literally was one character.
- Awesome, yeah.
All right, let's leave the rest for the listeners
out there to go check out.
You just gotta see the pictures.
These are brilliant.
- These are great.
- Yeah, the first time I read it,
Like, I was, my stomach hurt, it was really good.
(laughing)
All right, well, speaking of good, this was a fun show.
Thanks, Brian. - Thank you.
- You bet, talk to you later.
- Thank you for listening to Python Bytes.
Follow the show on Twitter @pythonbytes.
That's Python Bytes as in B-Y-T-E-S.
And get the full show notes at pythonbytes.fm.
If you have a news item you want featured,
just visit pythonbytes.fm and send it our way.
We're always on the lookout for sharing something cool.
This is Brian Okken, and on behalf of myself
Michael Kennedy. Thank you for listening and sharing this podcast with your
friends and colleagues.